Python is used for:
Web Development(server-side)
Software Development
Mathematics
System Scripting

Python can be used on a server to create web applications.
Python can be used alongside software to create workflows.
Python can connect to database systems. It can also read and modify files.
Python can be used to handle big data and perform complex mathematics.
Python can be used for rapid prototyping, or for production-ready software development.


Python was designed for readability, and has some similarities to the English language with influence from mathematics.
Python uses new lines to complete a command, as opposed to other programming languages which often use semicolons or parentheses.
Python relies on indentation, using whitespace, to define scope; such as the scope of loops, functions and classes. Other programming languages often use curly-brackets for this purpose.


Python uses indentation to indicate a block of code.

The most common number of spaces is four but it has to be at least one.

Example of that:

if 5 > 2:
 print("Five is greater than two!)
or
if 5 > 2:
	print("Five is greater than two!)


Python has no command for declaring a variable

Example:

x = 5
y = "Hello"


How to comment, you use #.

Strings variables can be declared either by using single or double quotes. 

You can get the data type of a variable with type() function.

For example

x = 5

print(type(x))

it will return: int

Variable names are case-sensitive

A variable can have a short name (like x and y) or a more descriptive name (age, carname, total_volume). Rules for Python variables:
A variable name must start with a letter or the underscore character
A variable name cannot start with a number
A variable name can only contain alpha-numeric characters and underscores (A-z, 0-9, and _ )
Variable names are case-sensitive (age, Age and AGE are three different variables)
A variable name cannot be any of the Python keywords.


You still have:
Camel Case, Pascal Case, and Snake Case


Python allows you to assign values to multiple variables in one line:

x, y, z = "hello, "all", "world"

You can assign the same value to mulitple variables in one line:

x = y = z = "Hello"

If you have a collection of values in a list, tuple etc. Python allows you to extract the values into variables. This is called unpacking.

Example:

fruits = ["apple", "banana", "cherry"]
x, y, z = fruits

Python uses def to define the function 

In Python, __init__ is a special method known as the constructor. It is automatically called when a new instance (object) of a class is created. The __init__ method allows you to initialize the attributes (variables) of an object.

Python programming provides us with a built-in @property decorator which makes usage of getter and setters much easier in Object-Oriented Programming.
Why are there no arrays of objects in Python:
because we have lists, which are exactly an array of pointers.

python's array module stores data contiguously, python objects have dynamic sizes and cannot be stored contiguously, so we have lists which store the pointers.

the main use of array is for passing around C-style arrays between different C functions, arrays are slower than lists for numeric types due to the boxing and unboxing, so it has no use in any pure python code.